# The coders computer

A text editor is a piece of software that you download and install on
your computer, or you access online through your web browser, that
allows you to write and manage text. 

Important features are: 1.) code completion; 2.) syntax
highlighting; 3.) a nice variety of themes (to reduce eye strain and
fatigue); and 4.) the ability to choose from a healthy selection of
extensions available when you need them.

Code completion allows you to start typing, and the code completion
feature will display possible suggestions based on what you originally
typed. Emmet will speed up your code writing faster than you can
imagine. Some text editors come with Emmet built right in, or
Emmet can be added by the means of an extension.

Syntax highlighting is a feature that takes the text you
type, and makes it more noticeable by colorizing the text. This makes it so much easier when you’re looking for an
error and you can’t find it. Extensions are like
plugins for your text editor, that allow you to have superpowers that
you wouldn’t have otherwise.

A command line, or terminal, is a text based interface to the system.  Typically a command is always the first thing you type. After that we have what are referred to as command line arguments ( -l /home/ryan ).
(there must be a space between the command and the first command line argument also).
Options are typically used to modify the behaviour of the command. Options are usually listed before other arguments and typically start with a dash ( - ).
Lines 2 - 5 are output from running the command. Most commands produce output and it will be listed straight under the issuing of the command.
Line 6 presents us with a prompt again. After the command has run and the terminal is ready for you to enter another command the prompt will be displayed. If no prompt is displayed then the command may still be running
There are various shells available but the most common one is called bash which stands for Bourne again shell. This tutorial will assume you are using bash as your shell.
If you would like to know which shell you are using you may use a command called echo to display a system variable stating your current shell. echo is a command which is used to display messages.


What are four important features to look for in a text editor?
Code Completion.
Syntax highlighting.
Variety of themes.
Ability to choose from multiple types of extensions when needed.
What do the following commands do?
pwd means Print Working Directory, verifies where we are currently.
ls will list the contents of the directory.
cd means Change Directory, it will move to another directory.
mkdir used to create a new directory.
touch used to create a new empty file and to change the timestamps of existing files.
Can you explain what is happening in the following scenario if these commands and arguments are entered into the command line?
cd project this command will change our directory from which ever current one we are in and move us to project.
mkdir new-project This command will create an entire new directory named new-projects.
touch new-project/newfile.md this command will create a new empty file named new-project and change the time stamps of the previous file.
cd .. this command will move you back one directory in the path.
ls projects/new-project This command will list the contents of the new-project file.


